Docs: Edit of data requests and breaking changes docs (part 4 of Contribute doc quality project) (#88858)
grafana/grafana: contribute/breaking-changes-guide/breaking-changes-guide.md

> # Handling breaking changes in Grafana frontend APIs

Reviewer: https://github.com/grafana/writers-toolkit/blob/main/vale/Grafana/Gerunds.yml

```suggestion
# Handle breaking changes in Grafana frontend APIs
```

Follow this guide to identify and communicate breaking changes introduced to our frontend API.

- [What are our public APIs?](#what-are-our-public-apis)
- [What is Levitate?](#what-is-levitate)
- [What does the CI workflow look like?](#what-does-the-ci-workflow-look-like)

> - [What do comments on my PR mean?](#i-received-a-comment-on-my-pr-what-does-it-mean)

Reviewer: This anchor doesn't work

Author: fixed

> - [I know it's a breaking change, what's next?(#i-know-its-a-breaking-change-whats-next)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [I know it's a breaking change, what's next?](#i-know-its-a-breaking-change-whats-next)
```

## What are our public APIs?

The Grafana frontend codebase exposes functionality through NPM packages to make plugin development easier and faster.
These packages live in the `/packages` folder and contain packages like:

- `@grafana/data`
- `@grafana/runtime`
- `@grafana/ui`
- [(more packages...)](https://github.com/grafana/grafana/tree/main/packages)

Any change that causes dependent software to behave differently is considered to be breaking.

## What is Levitate?

[`@grafana/levitate`](https://github.com/grafana/levitate) is a tool created by Grafana that can show breaking changes between two versions of a TypeScript package or a source file.

Levitate can list exported members of an NPM package or imports used by an NPM package, _but it is most commonly used for comparing different versions of the same package to see changes in the exported members._

> A Github workflow runs against every pull request and comments a hint in case there are
> possible breaking changes. It also adds the `"breaking change"` label to the pull request.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A GitHub workflow runs against every pull request and comments a hint in case there are possible breaking changes.
It also adds the `breaking change` label to the pull request.
```

## What does the CI workflow look like?

<img src="./breaking-changes-workflow.png" alt="CI workflow" width="700" />

## What do comments on my PR mean?

> ![Levitate comment](./breaking-changes-comment-screenshot.png)

Reviewer: I think this alt text should include the comment text for accessibility.

Author: I don't understand this suggestion. Could you be more specific please?

Reviewer: Of course :) Alt text should explain the image to someone over the phone.

Looking at: https://github.com/grafana/grafana/blob/0d21a0837a4905630c6bf2225ed97356f6937c46/contribute/breaking-changes-guide/breaking-changes-comment-screenshot.png, I would expect alt text like:

> A GitHub comment posted by the github-actions bot that says that grafana-runtime has possible breaking changes with links for more info and to check console output.

Author: fixed alt text throughout.

> Receiving a comment like the one above does not necessarily mean that you actually introduced breaking

Reviewer: We should avoid "above" for directions

https://developers.google.com/style/word-list#above

> Receiving a comment like the one above does not necessarily mean that you actually introduced breaking

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Receiving a comment like this does not necessarily mean that you actually introduced breaking
```

> changes. This is because certain edge cases are still not covered by the tool, but there is a good chanceso we raise it to your attention.

Reviewer: I think this has some typos and needs rewriting.

By clicking the links in the comment ("more info" or "Check console output") you can view more detailed information about what triggered the notification.

**Removed exported members** (console view):<br />
This means that some previously exported members won't be available in the newer version of the package, so dependent plugins can break.

> ![](./breaking-changes-console-screenshot-1.png)

Reviewer: Needs alt text: https://grafana.com/docs/writers-toolkit/write/image-guidelines/#alt-text

Author: made descriptive alt-text

## What do comments on my PR mean?

![Example Levitate comment on PR](./breaking-changes-comment-screenshot.png)

Receiving a comment like this does not necessarily mean that you actually introduced breaking
changes. This is because certain edge cases are still not covered by the tool, but there is a good chance that they may happen, so we call it to your attention.

By clicking the links in the comment ("more info" or "Check console output") you can view more detailed information about what triggered the notification.

**Removed exported members** (console view):<br />
This means that some previously exported members won't be available in the newer version of the package, so dependent plugins can break.

![Removed exported members](./breaking-changes-console-screenshot-1.png)

**Changed an existing member** (console view):<br />
This means that a member was changed in a way that can break dependent plugins.

![Changed an existing member](./breaking-changes-console-screenshot-2.png)

**No breaking changes** (console view):<br />
Seeing this suggests that while changes were made, most probably none of them were breaking. You are good to go! 👏

> ![No breaking changes](./breaking-changes-console-screenshot-3.png)

Reviewer: Thanks for adding alt text. I think they could all be more descriptive if we truly want to be sympathetic to screen readers. https://grafana.com/docs/writers-toolkit/write/image-guidelines/#alt-text has some good guidelines.

Author: made more descriptive.

> ![](./breaking-changes-console-screenshot-2.png)

Reviewer: Needs alt text: https://grafana.com/docs/writers-toolkit/write/image-guidelines/#alt-text

**No breaking changes** (console view):<br />
Seeing this suggests that while changes were made, most probably none of them were breaking. You are good to go! 👏

> ![](./breaking-changes-console-screenshot-3.png)

Reviewer: Needs alt text: https://grafana.com/docs/writers-toolkit/write/image-guidelines/#alt-text

}
```

1. Add a deprecation comment `// @deprecated`.
2. Add info in the comment about _when it is going to be removed_.
3. Add info in the comment about _what should be used instead_.

> 4. In case it's a function or a method, use `deprecationWarning(<file name>, <old name>, <new name>)` to raise attention during runtime.

Reviewer: Is this resolved because you don't think the change should be made or did you mean to make the change but haven't yet?

> 4. In case it's a function or a method, use `deprecationWarning(<file name>, <old name>, <new name>)` to raise attention during runtime.

Reviewer: It looks to still be lower case in the patch I see

> 4. In case it's a function or a method, use `deprecationWarning(<file name>, <old name>, <new name>)` to raise attention during runtime.

Author: > It looks to still be lower case in the patch I see

Sorry, I hadn't checked it in yet and then I got distracted by something more important. It's checked in now.

> 4. In case it's a function or a method, use `deprecationWarning(<file name>, <old name>, <new name>)` to raise attention during runtime.

Reviewer 3: Should we replace `In case` with `If`?

> 4. In case it's a function or a method, use `deprecationWarning(<file name>, <old name>, <new name>)` to raise attention during runtime.

Author: @clayton-cornell yeah, that's a bit cleaner. fixed.

> 5. Update the [migration guide](/developers/plugin-tools/migration-guides/) with your instructions.

Author: I added the full URL. Good catch
